Let's see, had you finished that sentence?
There wasn't anything about DNA and messenger DNA and mitochondria and all of those molecular, cellular activities.
All of that immunology and immunosuppressants and all types of pharmaceutical agents either enhance or those things that had to do with membrane transformations and blockers and
stimulators and all of that really has happened in the last 20 years.
Who was it?
You said that that first week you went home and said, I'm thinking about dropping out.
But then you obviously fell in love with, you got wrapped up in it.
What caused you to
to change your mind that first year?
Well, I guess the fact that I
was able to do well in the curriculum, and the alternative to that was going to teaching in the public school system, vocational agriculture, I guess, and it wasn't too lucrative.
Were there any meaningful conversations or advisory sessions you had that first year?
with some faculty members or someone else?
Not really.
During those four years who did you turn to for any council?
No one.
Who were your closest buddies?
Oh, just as I say, my anatomy group, I guess.
But we never talked about personal things or family situations.
Most of the students were married.
Was there much social life between the students?
Well, there weren't that many married.
Most of them, there weren't very many married students in my class.
Really, so.
Did y'all make some close friendships with other couples?
Oh, no, with maybe one other couple, the Huffs, I guess.
We didn't have time to frighten out much.
Alright, by the end of your first semester you began to feel comparatively comfortable in terms of your ability to survive academically.
I think so.
Were there, during those four years, were there any other memorable events, concerns, problems that you
came upon like that day when you said you thought about going home and telling your wife you weren't going to do it?
No, not really.
It was all mundane, I guess.
You knew you had a job to do, and you had a family to provide for, and that was where you spent your time.
Now, over on the main campus in those days, grades were posted publicly.
Were they here?
Yes.
Really?
And how did you feel about your grades compared to your classmates?
Oh, I never paid any attention to it a great deal.
I think, I think I finished, I don't know, maybe
second or third or fourth in my class.
How many of the 64 graduated?
Do you remember?
I think probably all but one or two.
That sounds remarkably good.
Was that unusual for that era?
Oh, it depended on classes.
The first class I taught
I think I lost 13 out of the 64 in my course.
So it kind of depends what course, you know, the level they came in.
What did those two years in the Air Force mean to your academic success here?
Oh, I think just two years of maturity, and then I was a section chief, which I had 21 people or so working for me in the Air Force, and I think that's just a
growing up process, management, time management.
Looking back on vet school, to which of the veterinary faculty do you feel most grateful
for their role in your career, in your development?
Oh, I think, you know, Dr. Price and Dr. Burns and Dr. Mellif and Dr. Turk and Dr. Leonard and Dr. Beamer and Dr. Hilton Smith, probably.
As you were getting... Dr. Davis, Richard Davis, Dr. McMurray, all those, we didn't have that many professors.
And the emphasis was real-world veterinary medicine as compared to research.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Research was really not even discussed or thought of.
What were the primary problems that are veterinary medicine, like brucellosis and what were the primary worries then in Texas veterinary medicine?
whole
Really not, not very much.
They had pretty well conquered the tick problems.
And Bruce Losis, well, TB had pretty well killed out.
And Bruce Losis was coming along in the initial testing program.
Biologics had been developed for vaccinating for distemper and hepatitis and a number of the small animal conditions.
And leptospirosis was a thing that was of some import back at that time.
And they had found that tetocycline was effective in the treatment.
So there were not any real problems, and we had antibiotics that were effective against most infectious diseases.
So there weren't any real big problems that couldn't be treated.
So as you were getting ready to get out of school, did the vet school help you find that first job?
No, we didn't have any kind of placement or anything.
Usually on spring break everybody went around and started looking for a job.
That was about it.
Now, you joined that man in his practice, and what was your, did he pay you a salary?
What was that, I'm not going to ask any other salary, what was that beginning salary?
Do you remember?
I want to guess probably around
$200 or $300 a month.
I came to work at A&M as an instructor in 1950, no, 1959 or so.
I came to work as an instructor at $300 a month.
In your practice of veterinary medicine, did you run into some reality situations for which the vet school had not prepared you at all?
Not really.
I felt, in fact, I guess we instilled in our graduates, not that I didn't learn a lot in practice.
I mean, Dr. Cobbin was very helpful and taught me a whole lot, but you leave,
leave school with the idea that you can do anything.
And that's really so unique about a veterinarian.
You go out and there's nothing in large animal, small animal, that you don't feel like you can conquer, you feel like you can do surgery, you can treat medical situations.
And I never had any real big problems.
It's hard to believe.
I don't know whether our graduates go out like that now, but at that time you felt like you could do any of it and did it all.
Okay, we're on the downhill slope now.
The emphasis here was on professionalism and real world and so forth.
If you were giving advice, if you could look back and say to that faculty then, I wish you had given us more of this or that, what would it have been?
In hindsight, is there any?
Oh, I don't.
I really thought that core of professors we had and the knowledge base that they provided us, I didn't feel like.
I felt like we had everything we could possibly have.
And it depends on the individual, of course, but most veterinarians go into business for themselves, or lots did, and they probably would have preferred having more business training, but I never found that a problem.
Back to your class's makeup.
Now, they were all male.
Were they all Anglo?
Were there any minority of any Hispanic?
There were maybe one Hispanic.
No internationals.
No.
And geographically they were scattered across the state?
Yes.
And when they went out to their first jobs, did they by and large stay within the state?
Let's see.
What have we left out?
Oh, let me see.
I think... Particularly about Vetscu.
Not a lot.
I know that the
type of class makeup and the level of education that the students get now as far as, you know, course materials and things are so much superior to what they were in the 1950s.
The advances in medicine have been tremendous.
And I'll bet the difficulty to get admitted, rigor, I'll bet that.
Yeah, it's more difficult to get in, I suppose.
And the kids are taught so much more.
I mean, well, it's just been unbelievable what's happened in medicine last year.
as far as new drugs and new diagnostic techniques and nuclear medicine and electrobiology and immunology and the whole bit.
It's how it can keep progressing, I don't know, but I'm sure it will with all of the
genetic interventions and the things that are going to take place.
What are the qualities of being a Texas Aggie?
I can't speak to this generation.
I hope it has stayed pure, so to speak, and that is that
I think in my day and time we were always, Aggies were always considered to be, you know, underdogs, so to speak.
And many of us that came at that time came from very poor families and backgrounds, and we were underdogs when we came here, and came from the wrong side of the track, so to speak.
We kind of lived together and fought together, and it was a situation that if you're going to survive, you had to be very close to one another because there wasn't anybody else going to help you.
I think you built that camaraderie.
What builds it?
What are the events and what are the activities that create that camaraderie?
Oh, I think it's, again, a single belief that
You stand as a group and you're kind of opposed by everybody else.
You either stand or you won't make it.
And I think the fact you, well, you can't, you know, say if you go through a military type organization all that period of time and you work together every day, seven days a week like you do, or used to do when you were all in the Corps of Cadets.
survive, and you have lots of reason to believe that if a fellow, if a person's a graduate of the Texas A&M, he's been through a pretty tough and rigorous lifestyle.
Okay.
I've got three questions left.
What has it meant to you that you attended Texas A&M?
What effect has it had on your life?
Well, I think my whole, everything I have and everything I've done has been, has been a result of coming here to school.
I mean, if I'd left,
school and gone to work for mobile oil in the field.
I don't know what would have occurred, but my whole professional development,
family and family values and my feel for my country and for everything else, I think, as a result of having come today.
Okay.
If someone walked up to you and gave you a check for a million dollars with only one restriction on it, that you had to pass that check on to A&M, what would you tell A&M you wanted them to do with that?
In other words, if you had the capability to make a major addition to Texas A&M's capability, what would you want it to be?
Oh, I think to... I'll see.
scholarships for people that are capable students, but not necessarily the top scholastic altogether, I think, based on needs, and to make rewards for good teaching.
and I feel
sense of achievement and having just gotten a million dollars for a chair in teaching, which I guess would be the first ever.
Because the teachers, especially in veterinary medicine, were your small group.
The teachers, moral and integrity and everything, ethics, are so important.
Because if you don't go out here with the right ethics and morals,
you've lost out, I think.
Was that emphasized, do you think, appropriately when you were a student?
Oh, yeah.
I think, as I keep naming off these seven or eight, nine professors, they lived a life of example.
I mean, they're just people that you looked up to.
I mean, they were just great, great kind of people.
So the last question, what feelings do you hold in your heart for Texas A&M today?
Oh, I guess I kind of live and die still with A&M.
I see that changes have been made.
I've not always been happy with
with some of the things that they've done, people they've hired and different things, but that part doesn't worry me.
I think more about not the internal politics and makeup of the university, but the product that we turn out.
And I think we turn out a unique and good product, and I'm still real proud of that.
And it seems that the traditions and
academic standards have been maintained, even with the fact that our student body mix has changed and our size has changed.
So, I'm still real proud of the university.